README.md, before:

# Signal Extensions (Sx) for Godot 4

Have you ever wanted to do more things with Godot's signals? Maybe merge them or filter them Rx-style?
Then Signal Extensions (or Sx for short) are for you. This simple and lightweight library allows you to do basic operations on regular Signals
and treat them like reactive-ish streams. 

*DISCLAIMER: This addon is NOT an Rx implementation. Therefore, it does not, nor will it ever, implement all the functionality and operators of Rx.
If you need a proper Rx implementation for Godot 4, see this excellent project: [GodotRx](https://github.com/Neroware/GodotRx) that Sx is largely inspired by.*

## Motivation
The main goal of this library is to allow for more advanced signal handling in Godot.

Godot's built-in signal system is robust, but could really profit from reactive approach, which works pretty well with games. Especially when a lot of components interact with each other.

Those kind of manipulations could be done by an Rx framework (like GodotRx mentioned above), but this means including a package, that due to the sheer scale of mechanisms needed for pure Rx to work, is really big and bloated for use cases you might actually encounter in your code.

Instead of including a big and complex Rx solution, why not extend the existing mechanism?

Sx allows for signal manipulation that feels like Rx, without all the overhead.

## Installation
* Copy `addons/signal_extensions` directory to the `/addons/` directory in your project
* Enable `SignalExtensions` plugin in Project Settings -> Plugins
* You're done! You now have access to Sx singleton!


## Basic usage
In order to perform operations on signals, they have to be converted to SxSignal:
	
```gdscript
signal my_signal

var my_wrapped_signal := Sx.from(my_signal)
```

### Subscription
To subscribe to emissions, use `.subscribe(Callable)`:
	
```gdscript
signal my_signal

Sx.from(my_signal).subscribe(func(): print("Got it!"))
my_signal.emit()

# result:
# 	Got it!
```

### Filtering and mapping
You can filter and map emitted items much like in regular Rx implementations:

```gdscript
signal value_changed(int)

# multiply only positive numbers by 2
Sx.from(value_changed) \
	.filter(func(value: int): return value > 0) \
	.map(func(value: int): return value * 2) \
	.subscribe(func(value: int): print(value))

value_changed.emit(-2)
value_changed.emit(-1)
value_changed.emit(0)
value_changed.emit(1)
value_changed.emit(2)

# result:
# 	2
# 	4
```

Sx supports signals with up to 6 arguments and they can also be filtered and mapped:

```gdscript
signal multi_values(int, int2)

# when mapping multiple values, array must be returned from lambda
Sx.from(multi_values) \
	.filter(func(value1: int, value2: int): return value2 > value1) \
	.map(func(value1: int, value2: int): return [value2, value1]) \
	.subscribe(func(value1: int, value2: int): print(value1, " ", value2))

multi_values.emit(2, 1)	
multi_values.emit(3, 10)

# result:
#	10 3
```

Number of arguments down the chain can be freely changed using map:

```gdscript
signal int_values(int)

Sx.from(int_values) \
	.map(func(value: int): return [value, value * 2]) \
	.subscribe(func(value1: int, value2: int): print(value1, " ", value2))
	
int_values.emit(3)

# result:
#	3 6
```

### Merging signals
Multiple Godot signals can be merged into one using `Sx.merge_from()`:

```gdscript
signal signal1(int)
signal signal2(int)

Sx.merge_from([signal1, signal2]).subscribe(func(value: int): print(value))
signal1.emit(1)
signal2.emit(2)

# result:
#	1
#	2
```

Multiple SxSignals can also be merged easily using `Sx.merge()`:

```gdscript
signal signal1(int)
signal signal2(int)

Sx.merge([
	Sx.from(signal1).map(func(value: int): return value * 2),
	Sx.from(signal2).map(func(value: int): return value * 3)
]).subscribe(func(value: int): print(value))
signal1.emit(1)
signal2.emit(2)

# result:
#	2
#	6
```

### Timers
To simplify creation of periodic interval timers (without the hassle of creating and managing a Timer node yourself),
you can use `Sx.interval_timer()` to create a SxSignal that will periodically emit items.

```gdscript
Sx.interval_timer(1.0).subscribe(func(): print("Tick!"))
# prints 'Tick!' every second
```

`interval_timer()` also accepts optional parameters to control the process mode and process callback of the timer.
To see more information about what they do, check Godot docs about Node and Timer respectively.

```gdscript
Sx.interval_timer(
	1.0,
	Node.PROCESS_MODE_ALWAYS,
	Timer.TIMER_PROCESS_PHYSICS
).subscribe(func(): print("Tick!"))
```

This Timer will automatically destroy itself once all the subscriptions are disposed.

Creation of one-shot timers this way is not supported, but you can just do:

```gdscript
Sx.from(get_tree().create_timer(1.0).timeout).subscribe(func(): print("Timeout!"))
```

### Subscription disposal
You might want to dispose SxSignals earlier or when the subscribing Node exits the tree (both of which are highly recommended to make sure no accidental memory leaks occur).
`subscribe()` method returns a SxDisposable object which allows for:
* manual subscription disposal (and subsequent disconnection from signal) using `dispose()`
* automatic disposal when Node is exitting the scene tree using `dispose_with(Node)`
* adding disposable to SxCompositeDisposable using `dispose_with(SxCompositeDisposable)`

```gdscript
extends Node

func _ready() -> void:
	Sx.from(some_other_node.my_signal).subscribe(func(): pass).dispose_with(self)
```

Composite disposable:
	
```gdscript
signal test_signal

var composite_disposable := SxCompositeDisposable.new()
Sx.from(test_signal).subscribe(func(): print("First subscription")).dispose_with(composite_disposable)
Sx.from(test_signal).subscribe(func(): print("Second subscription")).dispose_with(composite_disposable)
composite_disposable.dispose()
```

Disposables can also be added to a SxCompositeDisposable directly:

```gdscript
signal some_signal

var composite_disposable := SxCompositeDisposable.new()
var disposable := Sx.from(some_signal).subscribe(func(): pass)
composite_disposable.append(disposable)
composite_disposable.dispose()
```

### Signal-based properties
Sometimes, you need to store some values and react when they change. For this reason, Sx provides it's own implementation of Signal-based values, much like ReactiveProperties in GodotRx and UniRx.

```gdscript
var property := SxProperty.new(10)
property.as_signal().subscribe(func(value: int): print(value))
property.value = 15

# result:
#	10
#	15
```

You can also directly access the underlying signal:

```gdscript
property.value_changed.connect(func(value: int): print(value))
```

Also, in case you don't want the initial emission when subscribing to SxProperty, you can pass false to `as_signal()`:
	
```gdscript
var property := SxProperty.new(10)
property.as_signal(false).subscribe(func(value: int): print(value))
property.value = 15

# result:
#	15
```

### On complete callback
When you're subscribing, you can set an optional callback that will be fired when the signal completes (either naturally, or when signal is disposed).

```gdscript
signal numbers(int)

Sx.from(numbers).first().subscribe(
	func(value: int): print(value),
	func(): print("Completed")
)
numbers.emit(5)

# result:
#	5
#	Completed
```

Or:
	
```gdscript
signal numbers(int)

var disposable := Sx.from(numbers).subscribe(
	func(value: int): print(value),
	func(): print("Completed")
)
numbers.emit(5)
disposable.dispose()

# result:
#	5
#	Completed
```

### All available operators
* delay
* element_at
* filter
* first
* map
* merge
* merge_from
* skip
* skip_while
* start_with
* take
* take_while

Please note that full implementation of all Rx operators is NOT a goal of this library.
If you have a more complex problem that cannot be solved with Sx, then use GodotRx instead.

# License
Distributed under the [MIT License](https://github.com/TheWalruzz/godot-sx/blob/main/LICENSE).

Commit message:

Added ConnectFlags to creator methods for signals

README.md, after:

# GodotSx - Signal Extensions for Godot 4

Have you ever wanted to do more things with Godot's signals? Maybe merge them or filter them Rx-style?
Then Signal Extensions (or Sx for short) are for you. This simple and lightweight library allows you to do basic operations on regular Signals
and treat them like reactive-ish streams. 

*DISCLAIMER: This addon is NOT an Rx implementation. Therefore, it does not, nor will it ever, implement all the functionality and operators of Rx.
If you need a proper Rx implementation for Godot 4, see this excellent project: [GodotRx](https://github.com/Neroware/GodotRx) that Sx is largely inspired by.*

## Motivation
The main goal of this library is to allow for more advanced signal handling in Godot.

Godot's built-in signal system is robust, but could really profit from reactive approach, which works pretty well with games. Especially when a lot of components interact with each other.

Those kind of manipulations could be done by an Rx framework (like GodotRx mentioned above), but this means including a package, that due to the sheer scale of mechanisms needed for pure Rx to work, is really big and bloated for use cases you might actually encounter in your code.

Instead of including a big and complex Rx solution, why not extend the existing mechanism?

Sx allows for signal manipulation that feels like Rx, without all the overhead.

## Installation
* Copy `addons/signal_extensions` directory to the `/addons/` directory in your project
* Enable `SignalExtensions` plugin in Project Settings -> Plugins
* You're done! You now have access to Sx singleton!


## Basic usage
In order to perform operations on signals, they have to be converted to SxSignal:
	
```gdscript
signal my_signal

var my_wrapped_signal := Sx.from(my_signal)
```

Much like when connecting to native signals, some flags can be passed to control the signal connection See: enum Object.ConnectFlags.
Please note that using [b]ConnectFlags.ONE_SHOT[/b] might break the subscription system of GodotSx. Use [b].first()[/b] operator instead.

```gdscript
signal my_signal

# this will defer emissions to idle frame, instead of sending them immediately.
var my_wrapped_signal := Sx.from(my_signal, CONNECT_DEFERRED)
```

### Subscription
To subscribe to emissions, use `.subscribe(Callable)`:
	
```gdscript
signal my_signal

Sx.from(my_signal).subscribe(func(): print("Got it!"))
my_signal.emit()

# result:
# 	Got it!
```

### Filtering and mapping
You can filter and map emitted items much like in regular Rx implementations:

```gdscript
signal value_changed(int)

# multiply only positive numbers by 2
Sx.from(value_changed) \
	.filter(func(value: int): return value > 0) \
	.map(func(value: int): return value * 2) \
	.subscribe(func(value: int): print(value))

value_changed.emit(-2)
value_changed.emit(-1)
value_changed.emit(0)
value_changed.emit(1)
value_changed.emit(2)

# result:
# 	2
# 	4
```

Sx supports signals with up to 6 arguments and they can also be filtered and mapped:

```gdscript
signal multi_values(int, int2)

# when mapping multiple values, array must be returned from lambda
Sx.from(multi_values) \
	.filter(func(value1: int, value2: int): return value2 > value1) \
	.map(func(value1: int, value2: int): return [value2, value1]) \
	.subscribe(func(value1: int, value2: int): print(value1, " ", value2))

multi_values.emit(2, 1)	
multi_values.emit(3, 10)

# result:
#	10 3
```

Number of arguments down the chain can be freely changed using map:

```gdscript
signal int_values(int)

Sx.from(int_values) \
	.map(func(value: int): return [value, value * 2]) \
	.subscribe(func(value1: int, value2: int): print(value1, " ", value2))
	
int_values.emit(3)

# result:
#	3 6
```

### Merging signals
Multiple Godot signals can be merged into one using `Sx.merge_from()`:

```gdscript
signal signal1(int)
signal signal2(int)

Sx.merge_from([signal1, signal2]).subscribe(func(value: int): print(value))
signal1.emit(1)
signal2.emit(2)

# result:
#	1
#	2
```

Multiple SxSignals can also be merged easily using `Sx.merge()`:

```gdscript
signal signal1(int)
signal signal2(int)

Sx.merge([
	Sx.from(signal1).map(func(value: int): return value * 2),
	Sx.from(signal2).map(func(value: int): return value * 3)
]).subscribe(func(value: int): print(value))
signal1.emit(1)
signal2.emit(2)

# result:
#	2
#	6
```

### Timers
To simplify creation of periodic interval timers (without the hassle of creating and managing a Timer node yourself),
you can use `Sx.interval_timer()` to create a SxSignal that will periodically emit items.

```gdscript
Sx.interval_timer(1.0).subscribe(func(): print("Tick!"))
# prints 'Tick!' every second
```

`interval_timer()` also accepts optional parameters to control the process mode and process callback of the timer.
To see more information about what they do, check Godot docs about Node and Timer respectively.

```gdscript
Sx.interval_timer(
	1.0,
	Node.PROCESS_MODE_ALWAYS,
	Timer.TIMER_PROCESS_PHYSICS
).subscribe(func(): print("Tick!"))
```

This Timer will automatically destroy itself once all the subscriptions are disposed.

Creation of one-shot timers this way is not supported, but you can just do:

```gdscript
Sx.from(get_tree().create_timer(1.0).timeout).subscribe(func(): print("Timeout!"))
```

### Subscription disposal
You might want to dispose SxSignals earlier or when the subscribing Node exits the tree (both of which are highly recommended to make sure no accidental memory leaks occur).
`subscribe()` method returns a SxDisposable object which allows for:
* manual subscription disposal (and subsequent disconnection from signal) using `dispose()`
* automatic disposal when Node is exitting the scene tree using `dispose_with(Node)`
* adding disposable to SxCompositeDisposable using `dispose_with(SxCompositeDisposable)`

```gdscript
extends Node

func _ready() -> void:
	Sx.from(some_other_node.my_signal).subscribe(func(): pass).dispose_with(self)
```

Composite disposable:
	
```gdscript
signal test_signal

var composite_disposable := SxCompositeDisposable.new()
Sx.from(test_signal).subscribe(func(): print("First subscription")).dispose_with(composite_disposable)
Sx.from(test_signal).subscribe(func(): print("Second subscription")).dispose_with(composite_disposable)
composite_disposable.dispose()
```

Disposables can also be added to a SxCompositeDisposable directly:

```gdscript
signal some_signal

var composite_disposable := SxCompositeDisposable.new()
var disposable := Sx.from(some_signal).subscribe(func(): pass)
composite_disposable.append(disposable)
composite_disposable.dispose()
```

### Signal-based properties
Sometimes, you need to store some values and react when they change. For this reason, Sx provides it's own implementation of Signal-based values, much like ReactiveProperties in GodotRx and UniRx.

```gdscript
var property := SxProperty.new(10)
property.as_signal().subscribe(func(value: int): print(value))
property.value = 15

# result:
#	10
#	15
```

You can also directly access the underlying signal:

```gdscript
property.value_changed.connect(func(value: int): print(value))
```

Also, in case you don't want the initial emission when subscribing to SxProperty, you can pass false to `as_signal()`:
	
```gdscript
var property := SxProperty.new(10)
property.as_signal(false).subscribe(func(value: int): print(value))
property.value = 15

# result:
#	15
```

### On complete callback
When you're subscribing, you can set an optional callback that will be fired when the signal completes (either naturally, or when signal is disposed).

```gdscript
signal numbers(int)

Sx.from(numbers).first().subscribe(
	func(value: int): print(value),
	func(): print("Completed")
)
numbers.emit(5)

# result:
#	5
#	Completed
```

Or:
	
```gdscript
signal numbers(int)

var disposable := Sx.from(numbers).subscribe(
	func(value: int): print(value),
	func(): print("Completed")
)
numbers.emit(5)
disposable.dispose()

# result:
#	5
#	Completed
```

### All available operators
* delay
* element_at
* filter
* first
* map
* merge
* merge_from
* skip
* skip_while
* start_with
* take
* take_while

Please note that full implementation of all Rx operators is NOT a goal of this library.
If you have a more complex problem that cannot be solved with Sx, then use GodotRx instead.

# License
Distributed under the [MIT License](https://github.com/TheWalruzz/godot-sx/blob/main/LICENSE).
